Project 1 :

## DIPLOMASHIP

Diplomaship is about the power of words over bombs. As the player, you will set up a map with defensive resources. After the map is set, you will begin to be asked questions. Answer correctly and your map will suffer fewer attacks. Answer incorrectly and suffer the full breath of The Nation of Javascriptia’s wrath.
If you survive a full round of questions without losing all your resources, you win. However, if you fail to defend your map with your words, you will forever be considered a loser.
Worse yet, if you fail to answer even one question correctly, you and your entire nation will be decimated into ignorant rubble.
If you are capable of answering every question correctly, proving a mastery of diplomacy, you will have convinced the military of Javascriptia to perform a coup on it’s Leader Mediocra, giving you a banana republic to puppeteer through Object-Oriented shenanigans.


---

## Features include:
- Single player mode
- A tenacious AI
- Mind-bending questions
- A number of functions (some even sport conditional statements!)


#### Pain points include::

- Troubleshooting the scope of functions and the location of return statements
- Finding ways to access values generated by functions
- Finding a way to remove an event listener in reaction to a value being met
- Using and comparing datasets of elements found in arrays

#### Technologies used:

- DOM manipulation via functions
- Object oriented programming
- Element datasets
- For loops
- If statements
- Flexbox


#### How I did it:
I started by setting up HTML boilerplate and creating CSS and Javascript files. Beyond some hard coded container divs and p tags, everything else was generated using Javascript. I created two objects to contain functions which also served to pass certain values.
I iterated through two functions to create the grid used to map the player’s assets. The first function generated ten rows, and those were passed to the next function which populated each row with twenty cells.
From there I added an event listener to the div that contains the grid. The event listener adds a class to the first ten cells that are clicked, marking them as the user’s assets, and storing the coordinates of those cells with a dataset in an array. It also counts down the running count of assets.
After that function is exited it invokes a function which generates a random set of ten pairs of numbers which correspond to coordinates in the grid. These numbers should represent the AI’s attack on the player’s map. I also gave these numbers a dataset value and placed them in an array, with the intention of comparing that dataset with the one associated with the player’s selections of cells in the map grid.
That comparison proved to be my greatest hurdle. I will be using DOM elements and their Class names in order to set the appropriate styling and store the data so that the coordinates are never repeated.
